# pandey_et_al_2022
## overview 
Reproduction of MD ATP and ATP Pyrene simulation from *pandey et al (2022)*'s work. (https://pubs.acs.org/doi/full/10.1021/acs.jpcb.2c06077)
| System | ATP | Mg 2+ | Pyrene | NA + | CL -  | Simulation time (ns) | replicas |
|-  | - | -| -| - | - | - | - |
| ATP | 30 | 30 | 0 | 68 | 8 | 1000| 1 |
| ATP & pyrene  | 30 | 30 | 10 | 68 | 8 | 1000 | 3 |

# files
* `charmm36_ljpme-jul2021.ff` - CHARMM36 forcefield with modified ion charges
   * `ions.itp` - modified charges on CLA SOD MG by scaling of 0.6
* atp_pan
   * `old_topol.top` - original topology file without modified nucleotide charges
   * `scaledtopol.top` - scaled charge topology file 
   * `atp.pdb` - ATP PDB sourced from CHARMM-GUI Archive - Small molecule database: https://charmm-gui.org/?doc=archive&lib=csml

# ATP simulation without Mg 
* `gmx insert-molecules -ci atp.pdb -o atp_30box.pdb -box 5 5 5 -nmol 30` - generates a 5nm box with 30 atp molecules 
* `gmx pdb2gmx -f atp_30box.pdb -o atp30_pro.gro -water tip3p` - generates topology file
* topology is modified to scale charges refer to modified nucelotide charges below.
* `gmx solvate -cp atp30_pro.gro -cs spc216.gro -o atp_solv.gro -p topol.top`
* `gmx grompp -f ions.mdp -c atp_solv.gro -p topol.top -o ions.tpr`
* `gmx genion -s ions.tpr -o 1iee_solv_ions.gro -p topol.top -pname SOD -np 128 -nname CLA -nn 8 -rmin 0.5`
NOTE: using a smaller radius for ions and non solvent distance could cause crystal like structures..
Maybe be useful to use `-gmx insert-molecules instead.`
* `gmx grompp -f minim.mdp -c 1iee_solv_ions.gro -p topol.top -o em.tpr`
* `gmx mdrun -v -deffnm em`
* `gmx grompp -f nvt.mdp -c em.gro -r em.gro -p topol.top -o nvt.tpr`
* `gmx mdrun -v -deffnm nvt`
* `gmx grompp -f npt.mdp -c nvt.gro -r nvt.gro -t nvt.cpt -p topol.top -o npt.tpr`
* `gmx mdrun -v -deffnm npt`
* `gmx grompp -f md.mdp -c npt.gro -t npt.cpt -p topol.top -o md_0_1.tpr`
* `gmx mdrun -v -deffnm md_0_1`
* `gmx trjconv -s md_0_1.tpr -f md_0_1.xtc -o md_0_1_noPBC.xtc -pbc mol -center`
# ATP simulation with Mg
* include: `gmx genion -s ions.tpr -o 1iee_solv_ions.gro -p topol.top -pname MG -pq 1.2 -np 30` before NaCl buffer.
## modified nucleotide charges (charmm36)
charges required to be scaled within `topol.top` generated by `gmx pdb2gmx`, shown via an example below. A charge scaling factor of 0.6 was used.  

| nr | type | resnr | residue | atom | cgnr  | charge | mass |
|-  | - | -| -| - | - | - | - |
| 28 | CN8B | 1 | ATP | C5' | 5 | -0.08 | 12.011 |
| 28 scaled| CN8B | 1 | ATP | C5' | 5 | -0.048 | 12.011 |

This is performed for all cgnr groups of multiple of 5s (this can vary but in my case nr 28 - 43 were scaled). This represents the phosphate group that contributes a charge of -4, rescaled to -2.4. The example topology for this simulation is `scaledtopol.top`. The ions were also scaled within `ions.itp` in forcefield. 

| | ATP | Mg 2+  | NA + | CL -  | Total |
|-  | - | -| - | - | - |
| molecules | 30 | 30 | 68 | 8 | 136| 
| scaled charge  | -72 | 36 | 40.8 | -4.8 | 0 | 
| molecules 2| 30 | 0 | 128 | 8 | 118 | 
| scaled charge 2  | -72 | 0 | 76.8 | -4.8 | 0 | 



# ATP Pyrene Simulation

# Notes from Pandey

We ran simulations with 30 negatively charged NTPs, 10 pyrene molecules solvated in water, and a bulk NaCl concentration of 0.1 M. The concentrations of NTPs and pyrenes were 400 and 130 mM, respectively. The concentrations used in the simulations are much higher than the concentration at which ATP starts acting as a hydrotrope. Simulating lower concentrations in MD are untenable because of the need to simulate very large simulation boxes containing few NTPs and an excessive number of water molecules. The molecules were initially distributed randomly in the simulation box, and the system was solvated with TIP3P (24) water molecules. A Mg2+ ion was placed close to the phosphate group of each NTP. ATP always binds a Mg2+ ion in its active form, and this is likely for the other NTPs as well. (17,25−27) To collect better statistics, we simulated three replicas for each system except the simulation of a single pyrene molecule in water. The list of performed simulations is shown in Table 1.

Introduction
Jump To
The term “hydrotrope” was coined by Carls Neuberg in 1916. (1) Hydrotropes are small organic amphiphiles that solubilize hydrophobic compounds in water. Like surfactants, hydrotropes consist a small hydrophobic part and a charged or highly polar hydrophilic part. The hydrophobic part of hydrotropes is smaller compared to the hydrophobic part of amphiphilic surfactants. Surfactants form well-defined micelles above their critical micellar concentration (CMC), which is typically in the sub-millimolar regime, while hydrotropes form irregular shapes in bulk solution above a minimum hydrotropic concentration (MHC), which is 3 orders of magnitude higher than the CMC of surfactants. Furthermore, the aggregation of hydrotropes depends on the presence of solutes, and hydrophobic solutes enhance the aggregation of hydrotropes. (2,3) The hydrotropic efficiency of a compound depends most on its hydrophobic part─in general, a larger hydrophobic part provides better hydrotropic efficiency, whereas the hydrophilic part has less impact on hydrotropic behavior. (4) Hydrotropes interact strongly with the solute to generate intermediate complexes which lead to higher aqueous solubility of the hydrophobic compound, which we term as a hydrophobe from now on.
Several amphiphiles that are known hydrotropes such as sodium xylene sulfonate or sodium toluene sulfonate are commonly used in industrial processes to solubilize hydrophobic compounds like drugs and biochemicals. (5−8) Recently, a report appeared that ATP prevents the aggregation of proteins and bile acids in intestine and helps in the solubilization of fats and lipids. (9,10) ATP acts as a biological hydrotrope at its physiological concentration of 5–10 mM, and the hydrotropic activity is independent of ATP’s activity as an energy carrier in cells. (9) A subsequent report argued that although ATP reduced protein aggregation of proteins, the mode of action was not hydrotropic in nature, and that the inhibition of fibrillation of disordered proteins was a result of specific interactions between adenosine and aromatic amino-acid side chains. (11) Finally, MD simulations and free-energy calculations using a prototypical polymer as a model hydrophobe demonstrated that ATP indeed had hydrotropic properties, and that these could be relevant to liquid–liquid phase separation in cells. (12) The self-association property of ATP enhances its binding propensity with macro-molecules and thereby increases its hydrotropic efficiency. (12) The amphipathic nature of ATP is in fact manifested in its binding to lipid membranes. (13)
The objective of the current work is to compare the hydrotropic properties of other nucleoside triphosphates (NTPs) to ATP and to elucidate the molecular mechanism of the hydrotropic effect of NTPs. NTPs play key roles in biology, besides being the building blocks of DNA and RNA. ATP is the energy currency of the cell, and GTP is often involved in cellular signal transmission via G-proteins. Cytidine triphosphate (CTP) and uridine triphosphate (UTP) are also high-energy carriers like ATP but are not involved as much in energy coupling reactions. CTP is involved as a coenzyme in metabolic reactions, such as protein glycosylation and phospholipid synthesis. (14) UTP is involved in galactose metabolism and signaling. (15) From the chemical point of view, like ATP, the other NTPs (GTP, CTP, and UTP) contain a hydrophobic nitrogenous base attached via a 5-carbon sugar to a hydrophilic triphosphate moiety (Figure 1). NTPs undergo self-association, and self-stacking may take place at concentrations above 1 mM. (16) The self-association of NTPs increases in the presence of metal ions, (17) probably as a result of reduced electrostatic repulsion between the triphosphate groups. The hydrotropic property of ATP is modulated by its aggregation properties in water, and the self-assembly behavior of free GTP, UTP, and CTP is different from that of ATP, (17) suggesting that the hydrotropic properties of GTP, CTP, and UTP are likely to be different from ATP as well. GTP, CTP, and UTP are present in cells at concentrations 5–10× smaller than ATP. (18) If they can act as hydrotropes at their local cellular concentrations, then NTPs can influence processes such as unwanted amyloid-like protein aggregation in diseased states or liquid–liquid phase separation in cells. (19,20)
Figure 1

Figure 1. Chemical structure of (A) ATP, (B) GTP, (C) CTP, (D) UTP, and (E) pyrene.

We undertake MD simulations and spectroscopic measurements of aqueous solutions of Mg2+ salts of NTPs and pyrenes, a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon. Being hydrophobic, pyrene serves as our model hydrophobic compound. At the same time, pyrene’s unique photophysical nature makes it useful as a fluorescence marker for investigating the aggregation behavior of different compounds. (21,22) Nucleotide monophosphates (AMP, GMP, and CMP) interact and form complexes with pyrene and quench pyrene fluorescence. (23)
Our data show that for pyrene, GTP is a more effective hydrotrope compared to ATP, CTP, and UTP in the presence of Mg2+. The GTP–Mg2+ complex is able to separate pyrene clusters most effectively, while other NTPs have a weaker solubilization effect. In agreement with the simulations, spectroscopic studies of pyrene showed that the hydrotropic activity of GTP is higher compared to that of ATP. Pyrene molecules dynamically partition between water and NTP aggregates. However, for small peptides containing the aromatic amino-acid tryptophan, GTP and ATP have comparable hydrotropic efficiency.
Methods
Jump To
Molecular Dynamics Simulations
We ran simulations with 30 negatively charged NTPs, 10 pyrene molecules solvated in water, and a bulk NaCl concentration of 0.1 M. The concentrations of NTPs and pyrenes were 400 and 130 mM, respectively. The concentrations used in the simulations are much higher than the concentration at which ATP starts acting as a hydrotrope. Simulating lower concentrations in MD are untenable because of the need to simulate very large simulation boxes containing few NTPs and an excessive number of water molecules. The molecules were initially distributed randomly in the simulation box, and the system was solvated with TIP3P (24) water molecules. A Mg2+ ion was placed close to the phosphate group of each NTP. ATP always binds a Mg2+ ion in its active form, and this is likely for the other NTPs as well. (17,25−27) To collect better statistics, we simulated three replicas for each system except the simulation of a single pyrene molecule in water. The list of performed simulations is shown in Table 1.

Classical MD simulations were performed using Gromacs 2020.x. (28−32) using the Charmm36 force field (33−36) with modified nucleotide parameters (see below). An energy minimization was performed to eliminate the steric clashes. After minimization, equilibration was carried out under canonical (NVT) conditions. During equilibration, the modified Berendsen (V-rescale) thermostat (37) was used at a temperature of 310 K. For the production runs in the isothermal–isobaric (NPT) ensemble, Nose–Hoover temperature coupling (38,39) at 310 K and Parrinello–Rahman pressure coupling (40) at 1 bar were used. The Verlet cutoff scheme with a cutoff of 1.0 nm was used. Particle mesh Ewald (41,42) was used for the calculation of electrostatic interactions. The LINCS (43) algorithm was used to constrain all bonds containing hydrogen. A leap-frog integrator was used with a time step of 2.0 femtoseconds, and the simulation length for every system was 1000 ns. Trajectory frames were saved after every 10 000 steps. Each simulation was performed using a cubic box and periodic boundary conditions in all three dimensions. Analysis was performed using GROMACS and visualization with VMD. (44)
